in the previous two examples we used
some sonic snapshots to label the
harmonic sound of a move the first one
was the B to the C and we kept the C
into base or it could just approach from
a half step blowing in jailhouse rock
what I want you to do is look at diagram
one now I've had that diagram up for the
previous two lessons now you're gonna
see where that's coming from you can
clearly see in diagram one that you have
some notes that would form this B chord
now remember that these numbers are
aligned to C being one if you look at
the red notes the red notes would be the
notes in our C arpeggios C is one he is
three G is 5 then it starts over again C
is 1 B is 3 G is 5 what I just played
was example one of your tablature you
see 8th fret seventh fret fifth fifth
third now there are a lot of anger is
you could use there that's not the big
issue right now because we're gonna be
kind of open minded about fingerings but
out of that you would see all of these
different groups of notes which would
constitute a C chord if you play
adjacent three note groups you'll have a
complete C try on okay just for theory
purposes if you play these bottom three
notes you got c e g that's a root
position try it if you play the next
three meaning the fifth fourth and third
you've got a first inversion c try it
because the third the cord is in the
base then if you play the next three the
fourth third and second strings you've
got your second inversion C triad with
the fifth the base then it starts over
again with your C chord in root position
C e G so that's just a little theory and
I've mentioned this in a lot of my
lessons you want to when you're playing
you want to make sure you can see any
kind of combination of these notes
because it's all gonna be very relevant
to a C chord obviously these are the
notes in the C chord all right so in
diagram one those red notes are what we
were just dealing with that one note per
string C major root position arpeggio
root position because the lowest
available note in our arpeggio is the
root okay so in Lesson one you learned
your Zorba the Greek move which amounted
to approaching from a half step below
our chords were B and C B was a seven
major that's why we use the uppercase
Roman numeral that's not diet
and the key is it we've got a couple of
wrong notes in this the B is in the C
scale but the other two notes aren't
okay so let's look back here if you look
at diagram one you will see that the red
notes are what you stopped on just like
a red light as you mean stop when you
come up to a red light so our whole goal
here is to always target chord tones at
the end of whatever riff we play or
whatever melodic pattern and you're
gonna learn these step-by-step looking
at lower neighbors and upper neighbors
but the point is that you have this one
note per string arpeggio and you can see
in diagram one a B to a C move and if
you look at the upper notes you'll see
that it forms a D minor chord here's
your D minor chord record fifth string
root a minor form you can see that right
in diagram one here is a 6 to 4 and a 6
now you might suddenly arrives a
question here you might say wait a
minute
I thought a minor chord is a root a
flatted third and a fifth
remember that everything we're gonna do
will be in terms of a sea route so
that's why we're numbering it that way
this is gonna pay off because you'll
always be targeting a 1 a 3 or 5 so all
I want you to do is to practice example
1 with all kind of fingerings juggle the
notes around learn them really well and
do things like playing with just one
finger I've mentioned that a lot of my
lessons that forces you to see it on the
fingerboard reach over and tap it
whatever it takes for you to see this
information but I don't want you to just
see it I need to have you know the name
of the note with the number so C is 1 e
is 3 G is 5 this will build our
foundation upon which we'll start
applying the lower and the upper
neighbor